README.md, before:

# Interactive-DSA-Operations

🎯 A console-based mini Java project to practice core **Data Structures** in an interactive way.

This project is being built step-by-step to simulate DSA operations in Java for learning and hands-on logic building(For now i am Working Trees and Completed LL,Stacks,Queues).

---
> ReadMe To Be Updated Soon!
## Current Features

## Linked List

### 1. Insertion Operations
- Insert at Beginning
- Insert at End
- Insert at the Postion K

### 2. Deletion Operations
- Delete the First Node
- Delete the Last Node(Element)
- Delete the Node(Element) at Kth Position From the Begininng
- Delete the Node(Element) with the Value K From the Begininng

### 3. Freindly Operations
- Search for a Value in the List
- Max and Min Values in the List
- Sum of All the Elements in the List
- Update Node Value at Nth Position
- Shuffle the List
- Move to Next/Previous Node

### 4. Positional Operations
- Delete Middle Node in the List
- Get the Nth Element in the List
- All the Positions where an Element is Present in the List

### 5. Advanced Operations
- Reverse the List
- Sort the List
- Rotations
- Split the List At a Value
### 6. Animated Traversals
- Forward Animated Traversal(Coming Soon)
- Backward Animated Traversal(Coming Soon)
- Zig Zag Animated Travresal(Coming Soon)
- Animated Split Traversal

### Stacks 
- Push an Element into the Stack
- Remove an element from the Stack
- Check if the stack is Empty or Not
- Size of the Stack
- Top Element of the Stack
- Print the Stack
- Reset the Stack
### Queues
- Push an Element into the Queue
- Remove an element from the Queue
- Check if the Queue is Empty or Not
- Size of the Queue
- Peek Element of the Queue
- Last Element of the Queue
- Print the Queue
- Reset the Queue
## Trees

### Binary Trees
- Binary Tree Creation By User Input
- Display Tree in Various Ways
- BFS (Level Wise Display in a User Freindly Way)
- DFS (PRE/IN/POST) Order Display
- Zig Zag Traversal
- Height of the Binary Tree
- Check if the Tree is Balanced or not
- Search in the Binary Tree For a Value
- Lowest Common Ancestor of any two children in the Binary Tree
- All 4 Sided(top,right,bottom,left) View of the Binary Tree
- Root to any Node Path in the Binary Tree
- Vertical Order Traversal of the Binary Tree
- Mirror Image of the Binary Tree
- Show Tree (With the appropriate Summary) User Freindly Way
- Boundary Traversal of a Binary Tree 
- Reset the Tree
## Heap Operations
### Heaps
- Insert an Element into the Heap
- Remove the Root Element from the Heap
- Peek at the Root Element
- Check if the Heap is Empty or Not
- Size of the Heap
- Print the Heap Elements
- Reset the Heap

Coming Soon:
- Graphs
---

## How to Run
Make sure Java is installed.

```bash
javac *.java
java Main

Commit message:

Updated README.md on Remote Server Directly

README.md, after:

# Interactive-DSA-Operations

🎯 A console-based mini Java project to practice core **Data Structures** in an interactive way.

This project is being built step-by-step to simulate DSA operations in Java for learning and hands-on logic building(For now i am Working Trees and Completed LL,Stacks,Queues).

---
### README.md Under Maintainence alot to be added soon!
## Current Features

## Linked List

### 1. Insertion Operations
- Insert at Beginning
- Insert at End
- Insert at the Postion K

### 2. Deletion Operations
- Delete the First Node
- Delete the Last Node(Element)
- Delete the Node(Element) at Kth Position From the Begininng
- Delete the Node(Element) with the Value K From the Begininng

### 3. Freindly Operations
- Search for a Value in the List
- Max and Min Values in the List
- Sum of All the Elements in the List
- Update Node Value at Nth Position
- Shuffle the List
- Move to Next/Previous Node

### 4. Positional Operations
- Delete Middle Node in the List
- Get the Nth Element in the List
- All the Positions where an Element is Present in the List

### 5. Advanced Operations
- Reverse the List
- Sort the List
- Rotations
- Split the List At a Value
### 6. Animated Traversals
- Forward Animated Traversal(Coming Soon)
- Backward Animated Traversal(Coming Soon)
- Zig Zag Animated Travresal(Coming Soon)
- Animated Split Traversal

### Stacks 
- Push an Element into the Stack
- Remove an element from the Stack
- Check if the stack is Empty or Not
- Size of the Stack
- Top Element of the Stack
- Print the Stack
- Reset the Stack
### Queues
- Push an Element into the Queue
- Remove an element from the Queue
- Check if the Queue is Empty or Not
- Size of the Queue
- Peek Element of the Queue
- Last Element of the Queue
- Print the Queue
- Reset the Queue
## Trees

### Binary Trees
- Binary Tree Creation By User Input
- Display Tree in Various Ways
- BFS (Level Wise Display in a User Freindly Way)
- DFS (PRE/IN/POST) Order Display
- Zig Zag Traversal
- Height of the Binary Tree
- Check if the Tree is Balanced or not
- Search in the Binary Tree For a Value
- Lowest Common Ancestor of any two children in the Binary Tree
- All 4 Sided(top,right,bottom,left) View of the Binary Tree
- Root to any Node Path in the Binary Tree
- Vertical Order Traversal of the Binary Tree
- Mirror Image of the Binary Tree
- Show Tree (With the appropriate Summary) User Freindly Way
- Boundary Traversal of a Binary Tree 
- Reset the Tree
## Heap Operations
### Heaps
- Insert an Element into the Heap
- Remove the Root Element from the Heap
- Peek at the Root Element
- Check if the Heap is Empty or Not
- Size of the Heap
- Print the Heap Elements
- Reset the Heap

Coming Soon:
- Graphs
---

## How to Run
Make sure Java is installed.

```bash
javac *.java
java Main
